What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When you initialize a repository, a repository is created in the current directory.
Hidden files and folders are created which will allow git to store the current version.
None of your project files are automatically added.
You must initialize so that you can begin tracking files in that folder.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is different from the working directory in that it only contains the
files I have chosen to queue for a commit. It is different from the repository in that is
only contains files I have changed but not yet committed. The value is that it allows me
to bundle changes together, as I see fit, to make a commit.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

By only placing in staging the files associated with that one logical change and using git diff to verify that.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Branches might be helpful when making a major change to the code.
They would assist because you could go back to that branch and see how things were modified.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

To see where each commit ties into the tree and which commits can be traced back to which other commits.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

We join the current commit files from the two branches into a set of files. To show that the two branches are now one.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

It resolves the easy combinations of two commits, although it can make an error if it works as described.
It is unsafe, in my opinion, to assume that because person A removed line X, that person B didn't need
that line for the code they added at line Y.
